Edit release notes for Mimir 2.3 (#2916)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/release-notes/v2.3.md

Grafana Labs is excited to announce version 2.3 of Grafana Mimir, the most scalable, most performant open source time series database in the world.

> The highlights that follow include the top features, enhancements, and bugfixes in this release. For the complete list of changes, see the [Changelog](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).

Reviewer: See https://github.com/grafana/technical-documentation/blob/b685d35af697bd905f340658ed06e38fd6d8ab52/docs/sources/style-guide/word-list.md.
```suggestion
The highlights that follow include the top features, enhancements, and bugfixes in this release. For the complete list of changes, see the [changelog](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/blob/main/CHANGELOG.md).
```

> **Note**: If you are upgrading from Grafana Mimir 2.2, review the [list of important changes](#important-changes) below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: If you are upgrading from Grafana Mimir 2.2, review the [list of important changes](#important-changes) that follow.
```
Rationale: avoid directional writing in tech documentation

- [Query sharding](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/architecture/query-sharding/) is now enabled by default which should give you better performance on high cardinality metrics queries.
  - To compensate for the increased number of queries generated by query sharding, the [query scheduler](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/operators-guide/architecture/components/query-scheduler/) component is now enabled by default.
- The backfill API endpoints for importing historic time series data are now exposed on the Nginx gateway.
- Nginx now sets the value of the `X-Scope-OrgID` header equal to the value of Mimir's `no_auth_tenant` parameter by default. The previous release had set the value of `X-Scope-OrgID` to `anonymous` by default which [complicated the process of migrating to Mimir](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/issues/2563).

> - Memberlist now uses DNS service-discovery by default, which should decrease startup time for large Mimir clusters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Memberlist now uses DNS service-discovery by default, which decreases startup time for large Mimir clusters.
```
Should is ambiguous. Will it or will it not?

## Important changes

In Grafana Mimir 2.3 we have removed the following previously deprecated configuration options:

- The `extend_writes` parameter in the distributor YAML configuration and `-distributor.extend-writes` CLI flag have been removed.
- The `active_series_custom_trackers` parameter has been removed from the YAML configuration. It had already been moved to the runtime configuration. See [#1188](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/1188) for details.
- The `blocks-storage.tsdb.isolation-enabled` parameter in the YAML configuration and `-blocks-storage.tsdb.isolation-enabled` CLI flag have been removed.

With Grafana Mimir 2.3 we have also updated the default value for the CLI flag `-distributor.ha-tracker.max-clusters` to `100` to provide Denial-of-Service protection. Previously `-distributor.ha-tracker.max-clusters` was unlimited by default which could allow a tenant with HA Dedupe enabled to overload the HA tracker with `__cluster__` label values that could cause the HA Dedupe database to fail.

Also, as [noted above](#helm-chart-improvements), the administrator password for Helm chart deployments using the built-in MinIO is now set differently.

## Bug fixes

> - [PR 2447](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/2447): Fix incorrect mapping of http status codes `429` to `500` when the request queue is full in the query-frontend. This corrects behavior in the query-frontend where a `429 "Too Many Outstanding Requests"` error (a retryable error) from a querier was incorrectly returned as a `500` system error (an unretriable error).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [PR 2447](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/2447): Fix incorrect mapping of http status codes `429` to `500` when the request queue is full in the query-frontend. This corrects behavior in the query-frontend where a (retryable) `429 "Too Many Outstanding Requests"` error from a querier was incorrectly returned as a `500` system error (an unretriable error).
```

Reviewer: Also fine as-is; you decide. :)
